tests/README.md, before:

# Testing
A collection of Open-source C/C++ source code is used as 'test-code-bases'
for this utility. The idea is to run the generator Python script on a large
collection of code bases, in different languages, and to cross-check that
the tool basically works, and that the generated helper tool, specific to
each code base, compiles and runs cleanly.

Manual testing is being done for these code bases, downloaded from these GitHub sites:

 1. Postgres   : git@github.com:postgres/postgres.git - C
 2. RocksDB    : git@github.com:facebook/rocksdb.git - C++ / Java
 3. MyRocks    : git@github.com:facebook/mysql-5.6.git - C++ / C
 4. MySQL      : git@github.com:mysql/mysql-server.git - C++ / C
 5. SQLite     : git@github.com:sqlite/sqlite.git - C
 6. NGINX Unit : git@github.com:nginx/unit.git - C / Java / Python

From: https://github.com/trending/c

 7. systemd    : git@github.com:systemd/systemd.git - C
 8. libsql     : git@github.com:libsql/libsql.git - C
 9. libfuse    : git@github.com:libfuse/libfuse.git - C / C++
 1. gcc        : https://github.com/gcc-mirror/gcc                   (7.6k **) - C / C++
 1. MS-checkedc : https://github.com/microsoft/checkedc              (3.1k **) - C
 1. Roaring Bitmaps: git@github.com:RoaringBitmap/CRoaring.git       (1.2k **) - C / C++
 1. LLVM-Mingw   : https://github.com/mstorsjo/llvm-mingw            (1.1k **) - C / C++
 1. GNU-step Objective C Runtime: https://github.com/gnustep/libobjc2  (390 **) - C / Objective-C / C++
 1. LLVM         : https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project                (19.5k **) - C

From: https://github.com/trending/cpp

 16. FoundationDB       : https://github.com/apple/foundationdb      (12.6k **) - C++
 1. bitcoin            : https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin         (69.3k **) - C++ / C
 1. libphonenumber     : git@github.com:google/libphonenumber.git   (15k **) - C++ / Java
 1. Apple Swift        : https://github.com/apple/swift             (2.5k **) - C++ / Swift / C
 1. Mozilla DeepSpeech : https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech      (21.8k **) - C++ / C
 1. Google LevelDB     : https://github.com/google/leveldb          (32.6k **) - C++
 1. MongoDB            : git@github.com:mongodb/mongo.git           (23.7k **) C++

From: Apache site

 23. Apache OpenOffice  : https://github.com/apache/openoffice       (744 **) - C++ / Java
 1. Apache Calcite     : git@github.com:apache/calcite.git          (3.8k **) - Java
 1. Hadoop             : git@github.com:apache/hadoop.git           (13.5k **) - Java
 1. flink              : https://github.com/apache/flink            (21.2k **) - Java
 1.  spark              : https://github.com/apache/spark            (26.9k **) - Scala
 1.  ignite-3           : https://github.com/apache/ignite-3         (108 **) - Java
 1.  Cassandra          : git@github.com:apache/cassandra.git        (8k **) - Java
 1.  tvm                : git@github.com:apache/tvm.git              (9.6k **) - C++ / Python
 1.  Hbase              : git@github.com:apache/hbase.git            (4.9k **) - Java
 1.  Kafka              : git@github.com:apache/kafka.git            (24.8k **) - Java / Scala
 1.  celix              : git@github.com:apache/celix.git            (139 **) - C / C++
 1.  brpc               : git@github.com:apache/brpc.git             (14.8k **) - C++
 1.  bookkeeper         : git@github.com:apache/bookkeeper.git       (1.7k **) - Java
 1.  impala             : git@github.com:apache/impala.git           (953 **)  - C++ / Java
 1.  ignite             : git@github.com:apache/ignite.git           (4.4k **) - Java / C# / C++
 1.  solr               : git@github.com:apache/solr.git             (726 **)  - Java
 1.  zookeeper          : git@github.com:apache/zookeeper.git        (11.2k **) - Java / C++ / C

Commit message:

Initial addition of pytest framework, and test_gen_loc_files_basic.py test.
This commit introduces pytest tests and one basic initial test case.

- Add test cases to verify LOC dir structure.
- Add test-code/ sub-dir and single-file.c test program.
- Add two-files-program/ test-code and tests to exercise generator for it.
- Update tests/README.md to describe pytest support.

tests/README.md, after:

# Testing
A collection of Open-source C/C++ source code is used as 'test-code-bases'
for this utility. The idea is to run the generator Python script on a large
collection of code bases, in different languages, and to cross-check that
the tool basically works, and that the generated helper tool, specific to
each code base, compiles and runs cleanly.

Manual testing, based on Pytest, is being done for these code bases, downloaded
from these GitHub sites:

 1. Postgres   : git@github.com:postgres/postgres.git - C
 2. RocksDB    : git@github.com:facebook/rocksdb.git - C++ / Java
 3. MyRocks    : git@github.com:facebook/mysql-5.6.git - C++ / C
 4. MySQL      : git@github.com:mysql/mysql-server.git - C++ / C
 5. SQLite     : git@github.com:sqlite/sqlite.git - C
 6. NGINX Unit : git@github.com:nginx/unit.git - C / Java / Python

From: https://github.com/trending/c

 7. systemd    : git@github.com:systemd/systemd.git - C
 8. libsql     : git@github.com:libsql/libsql.git - C
 9. libfuse    : git@github.com:libfuse/libfuse.git - C / C++
 1. gcc        : https://github.com/gcc-mirror/gcc                   (7.6k **) - C / C++
 1. MS-checkedc : https://github.com/microsoft/checkedc              (3.1k **) - C
 1. Roaring Bitmaps: git@github.com:RoaringBitmap/CRoaring.git       (1.2k **) - C / C++
 1. LLVM-Mingw   : https://github.com/mstorsjo/llvm-mingw            (1.1k **) - C / C++
 1. GNU-step Objective C Runtime: https://github.com/gnustep/libobjc2  (390 **) - C / Objective-C / C++
 1. LLVM         : https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project                (19.5k **) - C

From: https://github.com/trending/cpp

 16. FoundationDB       : https://github.com/apple/foundationdb      (12.6k **) - C++
 1. bitcoin            : https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin         (69.3k **) - C++ / C
 1. libphonenumber     : git@github.com:google/libphonenumber.git   (15k **) - C++ / Java
 1. Apple Swift        : https://github.com/apple/swift             (2.5k **) - C++ / Swift / C
 1. Mozilla DeepSpeech : https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech      (21.8k **) - C++ / C
 1. Google LevelDB     : https://github.com/google/leveldb          (32.6k **) - C++
 1. MongoDB            : git@github.com:mongodb/mongo.git           (23.7k **) C++

From: Apache site

 23. Apache OpenOffice  : https://github.com/apache/openoffice       (744 **) - C++ / Java
 1. Apache Calcite     : git@github.com:apache/calcite.git          (3.8k **) - Java
 1. Hadoop             : git@github.com:apache/hadoop.git           (13.5k **) - Java
 1. flink              : https://github.com/apache/flink            (21.2k **) - Java
 1.  spark              : https://github.com/apache/spark            (26.9k **) - Scala
 1.  ignite-3           : https://github.com/apache/ignite-3         (108 **) - Java
 1.  Cassandra          : git@github.com:apache/cassandra.git        (8k **) - Java
 1.  tvm                : git@github.com:apache/tvm.git              (9.6k **) - C++ / Python
 1.  Hbase              : git@github.com:apache/hbase.git            (4.9k **) - Java
 1.  Kafka              : git@github.com:apache/kafka.git            (24.8k **) - Java / Scala
 1.  celix              : git@github.com:apache/celix.git            (139 **) - C / C++
 1.  brpc               : git@github.com:apache/brpc.git             (14.8k **) - C++
 1.  bookkeeper         : git@github.com:apache/bookkeeper.git       (1.7k **) - Java
 1.  impala             : git@github.com:apache/impala.git           (953 **)  - C++ / Java
 1.  ignite             : git@github.com:apache/ignite.git           (4.4k **) - Java / C# / C++
 1.  solr               : git@github.com:apache/solr.git             (726 **)  - Java
 1.  zookeeper          : git@github.com:apache/zookeeper.git        (11.2k **) - Java / C++ / C

--------
# Pytests

A small collection of pytest tests exist to verify the LOC-generator

- test_gen_loc_files_basic.py - Exercises basic generator functionality
